<name>Blacks left out of medical picture</name>
The serious shortage of physicians and
dentists this nation laces is a fact acknowledged by federal experts and public
alike. However, one of the least known
aspects of this problem is the appalling
shortage of black physicians and dentists.
Among white Americans, one out of
every 670 is a physician but among black
Americans, only one in 5,000 practices
medicine. Whereas there is one dentist
for every 1,750 Americans there is only
one black dentist for every 10,000 black
Americans.
The crux of the problem is that there
are far too few black college students
who enter medical and dental schools.
There appear to be four principal rea­
sons that these schools are not attract­
ing a sufficient number of qualified Negro
applicants.
The first reason is that among Negro
college students, many lack the life-long
academic preparation necessary to
pursue the highly demanding and com­petitive pre-dental and pre-medical cur­ricula.
Secondly, a lack of communication ex­ists between medical and dental schools
and black undergraduates, resulting in a
belief among the latter that racial origin
is a serious deterrent to a career in med­icine or dentistry.
The third reason is that many black
students feel the cost of dental or med­ical education would be prohibitive.
The fourth is that many black students
are unaware of the opportunities which
would be opened to them as physicians
and dentists.
We feel that these four reasons should
not deter any black student on this cam­
pus from the attainment of worthwhile
careers in dentistry or medicine.
For the black student who finds his
background inadequate in any subject, he
can readily obtain tutoring assistance by
contacting his instructor, the study skills
program of the Counseling Center; the
freshman hoaoraries, Phi Eta Sigma and
Alpha Lambda Delta; the honors dorms,
Cambridge A and Hagerstown sth; the
Junior affiliates of the American Chem­
ical Society and other departmental hon­
oraries.
For the black student who is concerned
about any problem he might encounter as
a Negro applicant, the Pre-Dental and
Pre-Medical societies will offer their
assistance in obtaining pertinent and re­liable information.
Concerning racial discrimination in
medicine, we quote an article from
Ebony magazine:
The various clinical colleges and
academies, like the American College
of Surgeons and the American Col­
lege of Physicians have practically
eliminated their racial bars so that
Negro physicians are admitted Just as
others, as soon as properly qualified
and sponsored.
Similarly, the various specialty
boards certify Negro physicians as
specialists without restrict!cm when
they have met the respective training
requirements and passed the examinations.
For the black student who needs finan­cial assistance, there are numerous
awards available from professional
schools, medical societies, Federal and
state governments, and various other
sources.
Again quoting from Ebony, "Today
there are more medical school openings
available to Negro students than there can
be found qualified applicants to fill.* For
example, Harvard Medical School plans
to provide at least 15 scholarships per
class for disadvantaged students.
For the black student, a career in dentistry or medicine offers the opportunity
for a constructive role in attaining social,
economic, and political equality in any
community.
President Johnson proclaimed to members of the National Medical Associa­
tion in a recent address that Negro
professional men must be their "brothers' keepers* and "...must provide the
leadership, the brains and courage."
The Pre-Dental and Pre-Medical societies strongly urge any black students
interested in these professions to investigate our programs.
Charles Sneiderman
Jeffery Blum
Pre-Medical societies and Pre-Dental
